NERIA - NATIVE 96 x 96 BASE SPRITE

REFERENCE ROLES
source.png: Neria's identity, silver-to-aqua hair, blue-grey eyes, serene expression,
warm ivory keeper outfit, navy harness/shorts, ornate gloves, wave cloth and coral accents.
reference_pose.png: idle stance, compact chibi anatomy, large head/hair, clustered shading.
reference_pixel.png: readable large eyes, coloured contours and discrete pixel clusters.
No character, hairstyle, costume or weapon was taken from either reference sheet.
No reference-sheet pixels appear in any exported image. No image generation was used.

PROPORTION STUDY
The pose sheet is 387 x 490, arranged as 4 x 5 cells: nominal cell size 96.75 x 98.
A read-only dark-contour measurement within the first cell gives x=2..83, y=5..97.
This is an 82 x 93 contour box, clipped to the nominal cell boundary.
The upper head/hair region through y=53 occupies x=2..82, y=5..53 (81 x 49).
The core head mass is thus approximately half of the cell's visible character height.
Wide hair masses frame a small face. The shoulders, torso and upper legs remain compact.
Visual stance estimate: approximately 35-40 px between the outer boot edges; short legs,
roughly 12-16 px visibly devoted to the lower legs/feet, with a small central gap.
The automatic bottom-strip width also includes coat/hair, so it is not a boot-width measure.
The idle has a slight three-quarter turn, both eyes visible, and little lateral lean.

NERIA'S PROPORTIONS
Canvas: 96 x 96, exactly one idle frame.
Overall opaque bounds: x=19..78, y=3..93 (60 x 91), inclusive, 0-based.
Core crown/face: y=3..46, 44 px, approximately 48.35% of the visible height.
Face points slightly right; the near eye is wider, the far eye is narrower.
Both eyes are seven rows tall (y=32..38), with pale highlights and blue-grey iris clusters.
Chin is offset toward the right; tiny muted mouth and compact blush clusters.
Silver hair has a broad rounded crown and a side part, with large tapered forelocks.
Long rear locks hang down to roughly knee level, ending in restrained aqua clusters.
Gloves occupy broad readable silhouettes beside/in front of the waist; no ball is included.
Near boot reaches x=35..46, far boot x=55..67. Both soles/cleats reach y=93.
The feet have a small gap and a shared baseline, leaving two clear rows at the bottom.

PIXEL LANGUAGE
Native 96-pixel authoring: every coloured map character stamps one opaque pixel through
Aseprite Image:drawPixel. Periods leave the pixel transparent. No image is reduced to
make the sprite. No procedural tracing, raster illustration draft or AI image is used.
The complete final maps live directly in draw.lua, grouped into eight editable layers.
Light comes from upper left. Silver, skin, navy, aqua, metal and coral use distinct ramps.
Contours use local dark colours, with lighter upper-left edges on the silver hair.
Large cel clusters carry volume; small contiguous runs describe strands, folds and seams.
The source's very fine embroidery is reduced to legible wave curls and metal motifs.
Alpha is restricted to 0 and 255. There is no dithering or detached opaque pixel noise.
The final art uses 31 visible RGB colours; the source anchors and ramps are in palette.txt.

VISUAL REVISION RECORD
01 - Initial layered silhouette, face, outfit, gloves and long rear hair.
02 - Expanded the face and crown; restored the far sleeve.
03 - Repositioned the far forelock so both eyes could be exposed.
04 - Recut the blunt fringe into separate falling bangs; rebuilt eye maps and boot positions.
05 - Refined the rightward jaw, neutral mouth, pupils, blush, silver ramps and tapered locks.
06 - Added navy glove seams and broad finger pads, swept bang, cloth curl and boot cleats.
07 - Joined the far waist to the shorts and extended the chest wave motif.
Each pass was exported as pass_NN.png and pass_NN_6x.png and visually inspected.
The final sprite was also checked at native 1x alongside the source comparison.

DELIVERABLES
../base.aseprite - single frame, eight named editable layers.
../base.png - transparent native 96 x 96 sprite.
../preview_6x.png - nearest-neighbour 576 x 576 preview on neutral grey.
../side.png - source illustration reduced beside the enlarged sprite; no reference sheets.
../verification.txt - checks of native file, PNG equality, palette, alpha, bounds and pixels.

REBUILD FROM THE CURRENT DIRECTORY
"C:/Program Files (x86)/Steam/steamapps/common/Aseprite/Aseprite.exe" -b --script-param pass=07 --script scripts/draw.lua --script scripts/review.lua
draw.lua is self-contained. Historical revise_NN.py files record one-time map edits;
they are not part of the final rebuild. review.lua exports the previews and QA record.
measure_reference.lua only reads the pose sheet and prints measurements; it exports no image.

KNOWN LIMITATIONS
Fine source embroidery and jewellery are abbreviated for native 96 px readability.
No technical verification issue was detected.
